Curriculum developed detailing how Americans were forced from their homes and locked away in concentration camps
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 8/16/2004

When Kara Kondo was a young girl she was taken from her home, forced to give up nearly all of her possessions and was escorted to a train by armed soldiers for a long trek to a concentration camp she would call home.   Kondo was not a criminal. She had done nothing wrong. The only crime she committed was living on the west coast of the United States during World War II.   

When the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, the world changed for Kondo and others like her. People who had moved from Japan to the United States decades earlier were suddenly being accused of spying for their home country.   "You're a traitor, more like a spy. Why, because you're Caucasian or African American or Asian or European or Middle Eastern. There have been allegations against 'your people,' not Americans, but the people [who] share your skin color, of spying. You might not have known, but it's safer to put all of 'you' away, just in case, since color and ancestry, not personality, determines whether you are trustworthy or not.   "This is basically what President Roosevelt said to all people with at least 1/16 Japanese blood living in California, western Oregon, western Washington and southern Arizona, citizen or not, in February of 1942 in Executive Order 9066," writes Elizabeth Church, a student in Irene Wells's class at Discovery Lab School in Yakima.   

The students in Wells's class spent an entire school year researching the experiences of Japanese Americans during the United States' involvement in World War II. The middle school students interviewed Japanese Americans who lived in the Yakima Valley during that point in history, read books about relocation centers and visited museums to learn about the experience.   Kondo, one of the women interviewed by the students for the project, said during the taped interview that she remembers calling the relocation centers, concentration camps.   "Relocation center is a nice term for concentration camps," Kondo said in the tape.   Kondo, who was born in the Yakima Valley and grew up in Wapato, told the students that her father came to the United States from Japan in 1905, with her mother following in 1912. She said her mother grew up in a privileged family in Kobe, Japan, leaving it all to live with her husband in the brush land of eastern Washington.   "You can't imagine what it was like in 1912," Kondo said. She explained to Wells's class that it was all sagebrush, with dirt roads meant for horse and buggy traffic.   

Kondo added that making the adjustment was difficult for her mother, who couldn't speak English.   "I'm not sure how she got through it," Kondo said.   However, her mother wasn't the only Japanese immigrant working to adjust to life in the Yakima Valley. Kondo explained during the interview that in the 1920s the Valley became a popular area for Japanese immigrants to settle. She noted that once the Japanese began to arrive in the Valley, they started to isolate themselves. She said the Japanese immigrants couldn't speak English, ate different foods and had their own traditions. She told the students that isolation meant they could speak to each other in their own language and eat familiar foods, making it feel more like home.   "It was a small community within a larger community," she said.   Kondo told the students that the Japanese community in the Yakima Valley had their own clubs and churches. She said the Japanese Methodist Church was established in the early 1920s and the Japanese Buddhist Church was established in the early 1930s in Wapato.   One of the reasons Japanese immigrants settled in the Yakima Valley, Kondo said in the tape, was because people coming from Japan were not given the right of citizenship, which meant they were unable to purchase land. She explained that it ended up being easier for them to lease land from the Yakama Nation.   

"That is why many of them lived on the reservation," Kondo told the students.   One of the students in Wells's class, Lauren Antonio, said after hearing Kondo talk about the isolation of the Japanese in America and after reading the book "Farewell to Manzinea," several class members got together to talk about whether or not the students had ever felt isolated from society because they were different.   Antonio said during the discussion it became apparent that many of his classmates felt that at some point in their lives they had been bothered because they were different. He said there were a wide range of things that came up during the discussion.   Antonio said one thing the entire group agreed on after the discussion, is that although they may have felt singled out or different at some point in their lives, it was nothing like what happened to the Japanese living in the United States more than 60 years ago.   Kondo told the students that she can still remember the day Pearl Harbor was attacked. She said on Dec. 7, 1941, she remembers going to church but not hearing the radio announcement that the Navy base had been bombed.   "My father looked very, very troubled when we got home," Kondo told the students. "That was when we realized that Pearl Harbor was bombed."   
