Update given on new middle school, concession stand
Date Published to Web: 8/6/2004

Alderwood School District Executive Director of Business Dave Plesha provided the school board last week with a report on the progress being made at the new middle school. Plesha also updated the board on how the reconstruction of the concession stand at the high school is going.   Plesha told board members he has been meeting with city and county officials on issues concerning the new middle school that will be constructed on 57 acres of land along Washout Road, just north of Alderwood Christian High School. Plesha has been discussing issues concerning water and sewer lines and the entry way to the new school with City of Alderwood and Yakima County officials. Currently, the property for the new middle school is outside the city limits, creating some issues with access to water/sewer lines. The school district is looking at hopefully being able to annex the property into the city at a future date. School board member Fred Kilian offered his assistance to Plesha in conducting talks with the Alderwood Valley Irrigation District on what to do with the irrigation canal that runs nearby.   In related news to the middle school construction project, school board members approved two resolutions that will assist the district in obtaining reimbursement money from the state. The first of the resolutions approved has Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones and Plesha serving as the authorizing agents for school facilities. The other resolution had to do with assuring the state that no racial imbalance would exist in the school district with the construction of a new middle school.   Plesha also provided the board with an update on the rebuilding of the concession stand at the high school football field. The reconstruction of the concession stand is being done in-house by school district staff. The new concession stand will be much larger than the old one, said Plesha. Some of the highlights with the new concession stand, said Plesha, will be additional toilets in the women's restroom and the facility will be equipped with heaters.   

