Pioneers end G'view's season
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 11/8/2004

OMAK - Omak's power-I offense proved to be too much to overcome for the Grandview High School football team last Friday night.   The Pioneers claimed a 28-12 opening round District win over Grandview to earn the right to move on to the State playoffs. The Greyhounds (3-3, 3-6) saw their season come to a close.   Grandview was poised several times to take the early lead on the Pioneers' home field, but three first quarter stops by Omak after the 'Hounds had driven the ball deep into Pioneer territory thwarted any such hopes.   First year Grandview Coach Dustin Lamb said his club had three red zone scoring opportunities in the opening period. "But on two of them we had dropped passes in crucial situations, and with the other we had a penalty that backed us up."   

Omak also snuffed a couple of other Grandview drives in the first half when the Pioneers came up with a pair of interceptions.   The 'Hounds were forced into playing catch-up football after Omak posted three touchdowns in the second quarter. Two of the TD's came on passes, from Pioneer QB Cody Campbell to Brenden Kaermingk.   "They had us down 21-0 at the half," said Lamb.   Neither club could muster much of anything in the third quarter. But in the final period of play, Grandview made a run at the Pioneers. The Greyhounds finally got on the scoreboard when their quarterback, Brandon Artz, hit running back Silas Hansen with a 24-yard scoring strike. Artz followed up the TD with another touchdown toss to James Vela, the second one a 22-yarder. The Artz to Vela hook-up cut Omak's lead to 21-12.   

The Pioneers didn't allow Grandview to get any closer, though. Omak put an insurance touchdown on the scoreboard to account for the final 28-12 score.   The Greyhounds put up some decent numbers on offense, despite being limited to two touchdowns on the night. Rushing-wise, Grandview tallied 88 yards. Hansen got most of the yardage, gaining 63 yards on 17 carries. Frank Medina toted the ball six times and picked up 17 yards for Grandview, with James Vela totaling eight yards on three carries. 

Through the air, Artz was 19-for-35 for 176 yards. Vela grabbed 10 of Artz's passes and picked up 93 yards on the receptions. Hansen had three catches for 54 yards, with Kevin Concienne gaining 25 yards on four receptions and Medina hauling in two passes for four yards.   The Pioneers tallied just over 350 total yards on the offensive side of the ball.   In assessing his first year as coach of the 'Hounds, Lamb said he is pleased with how Grandview fared this season.   "We were in every game, with the exception of the East Valley and Othello contests," Lamb said. "For our seniors, it was their second straight appearance in the District playoffs.   

"I compliment our seniors for a good season, especially with having to learn new stuff this year.   "And, we played a lot of younger kids this season. By no means is our cubboard bare," he added.

