Forum
Date Published to Web: 10/6/2004

Campaign sign theft questioned
On my property just outside of Alderwood, I have the honor of displaying many signs for people running for office. All are for Republican candidates.
Just a few days ago a fellow citizen stole my 4'x8' "Bush for President" sign in an attempt to, I guess, hide the fact that some people in Washington state will be voting for the President. I am hoping that the person, who undoubtedly is a proponent of free speech as am I, will return the sign with no questions asked.
I also trust that Democrat supporters are not so insecure in their beliefs that they have to resort to theft to get Sen. Kerry elected.
/s/ Herman te Velde, Alderwood
 
Dinner organizers appreciate help
We would like to express our appreciation to everyone who helped with and donated to our cancer aid and research seafood dinner and auction held on Sept. 17. With your help we were able to raise $1,450 to help fight this dreaded disease. We do hope we have not left anyone out of the list but if we did please accept our apology.
SunnyView VFW Post #3482, Ladies Auxiliary VFW Post #3482, AM VETS Post #3733 and the Men's Auxiliary VFW Post #3482 wish to thank all of you for your support of this very worthy cause. Besides the personal efforts of individuals who helped with this project, we would like to thank the following businesses and individuals that donated to our raffle: C. Speck, Hinzerling Vineyards, Central Pre Mix, Bieber Bros., Bob's Drive In, Bob Hall-Sunfair, Standard Paint, CSR, Thurston Wolfe, Yakima Bait, VFW Women's Auxiliary, Benchley Fruit, RDO, Gerry Goedhart, Kestrel Vintners, Gerda Warmenhoven, JC Penney's, Melange, Snoqualmie Vineyard, DK Bain, The Paper Tree, Clarence Rosendaal, Johnson Fruit Co, APEX Winery, Bauerle & Cook, Rex Lund, Chukar Cherries, Jo Goodwin, New Reflections, Ria Goedhart, Jan Cook, Dr. J.R. Hale, Larry's Barber Shop, Professional Beauty School, Cactus Juice, Commercial Tire, Salinas Hair, Valley Cycling & Fitness, Les Schwab Tires and Charlie Holenworth.
/s/ Ruth Bones, Alderwood
 
Tourney sponsors aid cancer cause
This letter is to thank the contributors to the second annual American Cancer Society Golf Tournament held on Sept. 11 at Cherry Hill Golf Course.
I would like to thank the hole sponsors: Blehyl's Farm Service, Smitty's Conoco, Mid Valley Chrysler Dodge, Prosser Record Bulletin, Grandview Herald, Alderwood Community Hospital, Bell & Bridges CPA, Speck Motors, Tri-Star Distributors, River Ridge Golf Course, Black Rock Creek Golf Course, Cliff's Septic, Wal-Mart, Clear Channel Communications, and last but not least, Cherry Hill Golf Course, which was behind this 100 percent and does more than its share to support our golf tournament each year. Hole sponsors donated $100 or more in cash or merchandise.
I would also like to thank C&H Hardware of Yakima and Lower Valley Credit Union for their $50 donations each, and the following businesses for their donations of merchandise that was used for prizes for the players: C&H Hardware and Lower Valley Credit Union.
I would like to thank the players who took part.
We raised $1,539 for ACS. The 2005 tournament will be Sept. 17, 2005. If you wish to be a contributor or participant, call me at 837-8984.
/s/ Clyde Robinson, event coordinator, Alderwood
 
Pre-school helpers receive thanks
September was a wonderful and very busy month for us at Calvary Lutheran Pre-school. We would like to extend a special thank you to all of those who helped with the Sunshine Days Parade float—Dave Waller, Randy Schilperoort, Kari Bliesner and numerous parent volunteers.
We would also like to thank Pastor Nick Paulakis for his outreach at our open house and the Calvary Ladies Society for their help.
God bless.
/s/ Calvary Lutheran School staff
 
Rekindle spiritin Sunshine Days
I wish to thank everyone who was involved with the honor of my being elected grand marshal of the Sunshine Days Parade this year. I do not think you can realize what that meant to me and my family.
It was a long time ago when I arrived in Alderwood, 1937 to be exact. A skinny 11-year-old boy and not knowing anyone here. My dad died four months later at age 50 after getting pneumonia from working in the fields, and Mom took her bunch of hungry kids and made a living any way we could. We worked in the fields and it did not hurt us any more than it is today.
I have seen Alderwood bloom forward into a proud community by the sweat of many brows, the constitution of the dedicated, the blood of so many young men and faith of what it could become.
I have also seen these dreams die and waver, being replaced with desires of others and overshadowing the original ones. I have seen a community lose its faith in the past and uncertain of its future. I remember the days when the Color Guard and service men marched proudly down our streets in front of our high school band in great spirit and pride. The whole town cheering and waving and having a day of family fun.
It is sad to think that the era of community spirit is coming to an end. The meaning and memory of how our town was built and why it was built will soon be forgotten and replaced with new ideas not familiar to the founders and their families.
I thank you again for this wonderful honor you gave me for it means more to me than you can imagine. And with this, I want to plead with you to find the community spirit that is still alive in the hearts of those who live here and keep our Sunshine Days alive. Give our kids something to remember in later years. Find the reason it was started and use that as the basis to rekindle the interest. I do not think you will regret it.
/s/ Don and Ruth Bones and family, Alderwood
 
Harvest Dancea huge success
Alderwood Parks and Recreation wants to thank all those who helped make the 2004 Harvest Dance, held on Sunday, Oct. 3, a huge success.
Thank you to the Alderwood School District and Dennis Birr, the high school principal, for the use of the school gym. Thanks to the VICA Club members who attended, served refreshments and danced with the guests. Special thanks go to VICA advisors Karen Schrontz and Nick Paulakis.
A big round of applause to Bill Holden and his four-piece band for their great dancing music.
Additional thanks to the Alderwood senior group and to volunteer Sherre Ott-Holden for all her help, not only on this program but many parks and recreation programs.
And last but not least, thank to all 94 paricipants who attended the fourth annual Harvest Dance.
/s/ Don Stiles, director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department & Joan Niemeyer, assistant
 