Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 2/9/2004

PAID OBITUARY
AMELIA KLEINGARTNER
Amelia “Molly” Kleingartner, 87, a long-time Prosser resident, passed away Thursday, Feb. 5, 2004, at Prosser Long Term Care.
Molly was born July 14, 1916 in Portland, Ore., the eldest of eight children, to Amelia Ruth (Lorenz) and Jacob Martin. In 1918 her parents moved to Alderwood, and later to the Emerald District south of town, where she received her education at Wendell Phillips schoolhouse. Her parents being farmers, Molly learned at an early age to be a hard working farmer’s daughter, which remained with her throughout her life. She seemed to have an endless amount of energy and stamina, enjoying work and a job well done. In 1938 she married Ed Kleingartner at Granger. They moved to Outlook, where they were row crop farmers. In 1950 Ed and Molly moved to Prosser and owned and operated a dairy farm. For many years she worked at a local packing plant and retired as a floor lady. 
Up into her 80s, Molly enjoyed dancing, pinochle, canning from her garden, embroidering and crocheting. She loved to cook and feed anyone stepping across her threshold. She spent time going to garage sales and bartering for good deals. Molly cherished time spent with family and friends. 
She was a member of the Teamsters Union, Eagles, VFW, and the Moose.
Molly is survived by three children, Shirley Pappas and husband, Michael, of Seattle, Larry Kleingartner and wife, Marcia, of Prosser and Arlene and husband, Ron, of Bayview, Idaho; 11 grandchildren; numerous great-grandchildren; one brother, Robert Martin; four sisters, Katie Johnson, Helen Price, Alice Prescott, all of Alderwood and Betty Booher of Port Angeles.
She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Ed Kleingartner; one great-granddaughter, Amber; and a sister, Elsie Mattingley.
Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Feb. 9, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. and Tuesday, Feb. 10, 2004, from 8 a.m. to noon at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held Tuesday, Feb. 10, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. We will always remember her smile, the twinkle in her eyes, endless energy and her outgoing and fun loving personality. 
