Forum
Date Published to Web: 7/7/2004

Thanks for the great seasons
Due to a career change I will not be able to coach the Lady Vikings basketball team next year. First thank you to all of the parents of the student-athletes I was able to coach over the past five seasons. Your dedication to your daughters was awesome.
For the players, I have enjoyed my years at Mabton and thank everyone for the wonderful memories that I will cherish for a lifetime. I hope that you have learned as much from me as I have from you over the years. Your desire to improve yourself and to make the Mabton Lady Vikings basketball competitive was awesome to be  a part of.
This desire was never more evident than this past week at Soap Lake Team Camp. Due to unforseeable circumstances, five girls - Diana Lopez, Alida Mendoza, Erica Sanchez, Adriana Cardenas and Talisa Sotelo showed everyone at the camp what hard work, desire and guts were all about. These young ladies played 11 basketball games in four days. They competed in every game and took most teams to the very end. It was truly an honor to coach you five Lady Vikings one last time. The future of Mabton Lady Viking basketball is alive and well.
I wish all returning players and Mike Roettger the best of luck this upcoming basketball season, as well as in all of their seasons. I hope that each of you get to taste the success each of you deserve.
Ladies my bags are always packed.
/s/ Brett Simpson, former Mabton girls basketball coach.
 
Seniors thank party sponsors
The Alderwood High School senior class of 2004 would like to extend a special thank you to all of the following individuals for their help in making the senior graduation party a great success:
First to Margie Ramirez for the donation of a handmade Grizzly quilt for the raffle; Sharon Pina for being our cook and to all of the junior class parents who donated food; to John and Karen Cullen and Gary and Cori Visser for the casino (even though they didn't have any seniors this year); and to Mr. Miles, Mr. Sleater, Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Kezell for helping with the games (all greatly appreciated; to Mrs. Ohler's leadership class for the help with decorations; Mr. Mauro and Mr. Paulus and the boys for their muscles; Sandy Schilperoort for helping at the door and Bertha Soto and Sharon Rollinger for their help with decorating; and also to the school administration folks that helped out.
And last, but not least, to all of the senior parents who were there to help plan the event and helped at the party as well. We couldn't have done without you.
We also greatly appreciate the financial and merchandise donations from the following community businesses. Without their donations we would not have had such a great party. So a great big thanks you to Valley Lanes, Judy Hall, Pepsi, The Battery Store, Randall J. Schuler DDS, MS Valley Investment Properties Real Estate Inc., R.F. Strain Insurance Inc., Alderwood Community Hospital, Alderwood Volunteer Fire Department, Harold's Repair and Rental LLC., Orange Dairy Services Inc., Yakima Valley Chiropractic Center, Ganser Enterprises Inc., Physical Therapy and Sports Rehabilitation Services, Golob Family Trust, MS Properties of WA., LLC., JCPenney, Valley Racquet and Fitness Center,  Costco, El Conquistador, Valley Auto, Arbys, Taco Bell, Eastway Video, Burger Ranch, Wal-Mart, Homestretch Espresso, Pizza Hut, Dominos's Pizza, Slam Dunk, Electric Beach, KFC/A&W, McDonald's, Taylor'd Footwear,  Catalina's, Jump Start Espresso, Daily Buzz, BiMart, New Image Hair Design, Martin Dental and U.S. Cellular.
 If we missed anyone we are truly sorry. It took the combined efforts of everyone to make it happen and to give our kids a safe place to celebrate their enormous accomplishments for this particular part of their journey. To them we say congratulations and to you again, we say thank you.
From the AHS Senior Class Parent Booster Club
 