Snipes Mountain Restaurant to host Nov. 2 dairy conference
Date Published to Web: 9/23/2004

"Herd Management - The Key to Progress" is the theme of the Tuesday, Nov. 2, dairy conference that will be held at Alderwood's Snipes Mountain Restaurant.   A dairy systems specialist with the University of Minnesota Extension Service, Jim Salfer, will present two talks. The first, from 9:05 to 10:30 a.m., will address why "Culling is Important." Salfer's second workshop session is entitled, "Minimizing Herd Replacement Costs," which will be presented from 10:50 a.m. to noon.   Salfer's experience includes being a dairy nutritionist, a feed department manager, a district sales manager for an A.I. company and he has managed a dairy farm. He currently develops and implements educational programs that improve the profitability of dairy producers. Salfer's focus includes dairy cow longevity and using dairy production records to improve farm profitability. He holds a Bachelor's degree from South Dakota State University and a Master's from the University of Minnesota.   The Nov. 2 dairy conference, which is open to all Yakima Valley dairy producers and those who hold an interest in the dairy field, will also feature Jerry Olson as a guest speaker. Having grown up on a small dairy farm in Minnesota, Olson went on to run a mixed animal practice for five years. After obtaining a Master's degree, he then accepted a position with Colorado State University. Olson has also served as an associate professor for the College of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Minnesota. Four years ago, Olson accepted a position with Pharmacia Animal Health and is currently a senior veterinarian for Pfizer AHG.   Olson's first workshop session, from 1 to 1:45 p.m., is entitled "Culling Solutions." He will present a second talk from 2 to 3 p.m. dealing with "Tracking Culling Patterns and Progress."   Local dairy farmers interested in attending any or all of the Nov. 2 sessions should call (509) 303-9614 for registration information.   
