Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 4/29/2004

DEANNA JEAN BISSONETTE
Deanna Jean Bissonette, 46, of Outlook fell asleep in Jesus, thereby going into paradise with the Lord Wednesday morning, April 21, 2004, after being taken to Alderwood Community Hospital a few hours earlier for acute respiratory distress.
Deanna was a life-long resident of the Alderwood area. She was born May 19, 1957 in Alderwood, the daughter of Ellen (Nadine-Hand) and Verl Lint. She received her education in Alderwood and proudly graduated from Alderwood High School with the class of 1975.
Deanna married Rick Bissonette, her high school sweetheart, on Feb. 8, 1976, after he returned from basic training in the U.S. Coast Guard. They were married at the Granger Assembly of God Church. While serving in the U.S. Coast Guard, they made their home in various places around the country, including Connecticut, California, Texas, Florida and Washington State.
In 1983 Deanna and Rick came home to Alderwood. They turned their love for people and animals into a thriving business (Lower Valley Pets) in Alderwood. They served the community many enjoyable years, making many friends until Deanna’s sudden loss of health in mid-1999. Deanna was stricken with a severe advanced-stage cancer, so advanced they were forced to immediately sell their business.
By God’s grace Deanna survived surgery and within six months was hired to work once again in retail, at Payless ShoeSource. Rick went to work part-time with the U.S. Army National Guard. Deanna continued to work in retail through the summer of 2001 until suddenly stricken again by an aggressive, advanced cancer. She became disabled at this time, but continued to live life and rejoice for each day the Lord gave her.
A devoted born-again Christian, Deanna never questioned or asked “why me?” She accepted the pain and increasing disability with a divine grace and peace of mind. Deanna truly had the joy and love of Jesus in her heart. It showed in the loving smile every day that she freely shared with everyone. She let her light shine right to the end.
Deanna’s greatest joy was worshipping, singing and praising the Lord. Her next greatest joy was spending time with her precious grandbabies. They were in her thoughts toward the last when she said: “Give my grandbabies all my love, all of them”.
Deanna’s favorite hobbies included scrapbooking (grandbaby pictures!), gardening and collecting gnome figurines.
Deanna is survived by her husband, Rick Bissonette of Outlook, also a devoted born-again Christian; one son, Richard Bissonette and wife, Irma, of Alderwood, both devoted born-again Christians; two precious grandsons, Demetrio Hernandez and Elijah Hernandez; and two very precious little granddaughters, Emily Rose Bissonette (Emie-love) and Aliyah Bissonette (Leah-love). Deanna is also survived by two nephews she loved dearly and helped raise as her very own, William Lint of Outlook and Allen Lint of Yakima. She is also survived by her parents, Verl and Ellen (Nadine) Lint of Outlook; her grandmother, Hatie Mae DeWald of Yakima; three brothers, Don Lint of Alderwood, Dale Lint of Outlook and Randy Lint of Grandview; a very special person to Deanna, Elaine Getsinger (mom #2); and Carolyn Hazzard, like a loving daughter.
Deanna’s Christian faith was faith in action. She would want to share this final message of hope from the Word of God with everyone: “Comfort one another with these Words” But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18.

LILY M. LUTJEMEIER
Lily M. Lutjemeier, 84, of Yakima died Saturday, April 24, 2004, at Heritage Grove Nursing Home in Yakima.
She was born April 21, 1923 in Larned, Kan., to Arthur and Lillie (Kitterman) Stembridge. She was a homemaker. She had lived in the Alderwood area for many years. She had resided in Yakima for the past 15 years.
She is survived by one son, Dan Lutjemeier of Curlew; and one daughter, Sandra Gillihan and husband, Mike, of Outlook.
A memorial service will be announced at a later date. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood, in entrusted with arrangements.
