Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 3/31/2004

ESTHER EVA BARNSmart
ESTHER EVA BARNSmart
Esther Eva BarnHart, 77, of Prosser died Monday, March 29, 2004, at the Prosser Memorial Nursing Home.   
She was born Aug. 29, 1926 in Mound, S.D., the daughter of Eva (Mitzel) and Karl Vollmer.  She received her education in South Dakota, later moving with her family to Grandview. In August of 1942 she married Phillip BarnHart in Grandview.  Together they farmed in Grandview and raised seven children.  Following the death of her husband in 1978 she made her home in Othello and Tri-Cities for a short time before returning to Prosser in 1985.  
Mrs. BarnHart is survived by seven children, Neil BarnHart and wife, Thelma, Charles BarnHart and wife, Pamela, all of Grandview, Bob BarnHart of Mesa, Kathleen Williams of Clearfield, Utah, Mary Lou Bryant and Michael BarnHart and wife, Robyn, all of Prosser, and Sandra Pina and husband, Pete, of Moxee; 18 grandchildren; 21great- grandchildren; four brothers, Ruben Vollmer of Salem, Ore., Carl Vollmer and Fred Vollmer, both of  Alderwood, and Albert Vollmer of Grand Coulee City; and two sisters, Clara Kirks of Wenatchee and Martha Neugebauer of Spokane.
  She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Phillip BarnHart; two sisters; and several brothers.
Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, April 1, 2004, from 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. and Friday, April 2, 2004, from 9:00 a.m. until time of service at 1:00 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.  Burial will follow at Alderwood Cemetery under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.
 
NEDDRA MERCER DELANEY ANDERSON
Neddra Mercer Delaney Anderson, 86, of Alderwood passed away Sunday, March 28, 2004, in Alderwood.
She was born Aug. 17, 1917 in North Powder, Ore. to Frank and Bessie Wilson Mercer. She graduated from high school in Condon, Ore. and received her Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree of education at Oregon State University in Corvallis, Ore. She married Charles Delaney in 1943. She later married Ray Anderson, who was also an educator, on June 10, 1956. They taught 33 years all over the state of Oregon, Jacksonville, Ontario, Boardman, Willamina, Brownsville and Salem. Upon the death of Ray, she moved to Alderwood to be near her brother and family in 1991. She became known to all in the community as “Aunt Dee Dee.”
Neddra enjoyed world travel, bridge, knitting, reading and water aerobics. She was a life member of the National Education Assoc., Chapter Ex of P.E.O., Nouvella and the Alderwood Presbyterian Church.
She is survived by her brother, Bruce Mercer and wife, Jerrydean, of Alderwood; granddaughter, Kelley Stacy and husband, Mathew; two great-grandsons, Logan and Blake, both of Sunbury, Australia; son, Ron Anderson and wife, Linda, and grandson, Raymond, of Philomath, Ore.; step-daughter, Rena Bowes and husband, Rodney, of Amherst, New Hampshire; step-grandchildren, Bonnie Bowes and her children, Jay and Will of New York, and Jeff Bowes and wife, Julie and children, Trevor and Tatum of New Fairfield, Conn.; nephew, Lin Mercer and wife, Dana, and their sons, Drew, Micah and Logan, of Hermiston, Ore.; and niece, Mischelle Booth and husband, John, and their sons, Chris and Derek, of Alderwood.
She was preceded in death by her son, Larry Delaney; her husband, Ray; and step-son, Gerald Anderson.
Memorial funeral services will be held Friday, April 2, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at Alderwood Presbyterian Church. Inurnment will follow at a later date in Condon. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements.
 
HAZEL RUTH BLADES GREER
Hazel Ruth Blades Greer, 88, a former Alderwood resident, went to be with the Lord Thursday, March 25, 2004.
Hazel was born Feb. 1, 1916 to Arnold and May Blades in Maryhill. Her father died when she was four and the family moved to Hillsboro, Ore., where her mother taught school until Hazel was a junior in high school. They moved back to Maryhill. Hazel graduated from Goldendale High School in 1933. She then attended Yakima Valley Junior College one year and transferred to Eastern Washington State Teacher College in Cheney and graduated in 1936.
In 1936 she married Thad Walen, had one son, Terry. She bought and operated the Wheeler Auto Court in Wheller, Ore. for three years. Hazel was employed as a civil service typist at the Army Depot in Seattle in 1942. She then moved to Alderwood with son, Terry to teach school in 1945. She taught school full-time for two years and did substitute teaching for many years after that.
In 1946 she met and married Homer W. Greer and together they built an excellent Home Lumber business. They enjoyed 57 years of marriage. She was very active in First Christian Church, where she attended from 1948 to 1981. She served as a deaconess, secretary of church board, church clerk for nine years, church choir and various other committees. Hazel was very active in community work, serving as president of Junior Women’s Club, Garden Club, Novella Club and vice-president of the District Junior Federated Women’s Clubs. She had been a member of Camano Chapel since 1981.
She is survived by her husband, Homer W. Greer; one son, Joseph Terry Greer of Alderwood; one sister, Emma Jean Blades Miller of Moxee; one granddaughter, Kimberly Christenson and husband, Scott of Everett; one grandson, Cameron Morris Greer; great-grandsons, Andrew Wesley Christenson, Jeffrey Loffer Christenson and Christian Shoman Greer; and several nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and nephews.
A memorial service will be held Thursday, April 1, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Camano Chapel, 867 S. West Camano Drive, Camano Island. Viewing and visitation will be held Sunday, April 4, 2004, from 4 until 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Monday, April 5, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home.
Those wishing to honor Hazel’s memory may contribute to the American Lung Association or Camano Chapel.
 
SAMUEL VERNON RICHARDS
Samuel Vernon Richards, 60, of Dallas, Ore. and a former Alderwood resident, lost his life to cancer Friday, March 26, 2004.
Sam was raised in the Alderwood and Zillah area and moved to California in 1957. He left school after the 10th grade and became an apprentice machinist in the navy shipyards. He moved to Washington in 1969 and was a member of the National Guard for eight years. He was a machinist, while living in Washington and Oregon. He moved to Dallas and bought a farm and raised emus and rhea birds. He was a diversified farmer. In recent years, he worked as a machinist for NW Machine in Salem and Acufab in Corvallis, Ore., which later became Automated Tooling Systems of Oregon. He married Tammy Howe in July 2002.
He is survived by his wife, Tammy Richards of Dallas; daughter, Lisa Richards and grandson, Samuel Richards of Dallas; son, Aaron Richards of Portland, Ore.; daughter, Cari Domas and son-in-law, Chad Domas, of Kennewick; step-children, Shawn, Brenda, and Garold Howe; mother and step-father, Marjorie and Maynard Huenefield; sister, Marcella and brother-in-law, Lloyd Brice, of Fontana, Calif; and brother, Dan and sister-in-law, Rosie Richards, of Keizer, Ore.
Memorial services will be held Sunday, April 4, 2004, at 1 p.m. in Dallas. For service information please call 503-949-6098. Arrangements by Crown Memorial Center, Milwaukie, Ore.
