Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 5/11/2004

RUBY BELLE MURPHY
RUBY BELLE MURPHY
Ruby Belle Murphy, 93, long-time Prosser resident, died Monday, May 10, 2004, at Prosser Memorial Nursing Home.  
She was born Feb. 4, 1911in Wapato, the daughter of Effie (Ackerman) and Arthur VanWye. She received her education in Wapato and graduated with the class of 1930.  Following her education she went to work for the Wapato newspaper and later for Washington Fruit in Yakima.  On April 12, 1942 she married Lawson Murphy in Yakima. They lived in Yakima, and later moved to Portland, Ore., where she worked as a welder in the shipyards.  She returned to the Yakima Valley and made her home in Mabton and Grandview before moving to Prosser in the early 1980’s, where she made her home until the time of her death.  
She is survived by one daughter, Mary June and husband, Richard, of Prosser; step-daughter, June Dettbarn of Portland, Ore.; three grandchildren; three step-children; and five great-grandchildren.
She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Lawson Murphy; one brother; and two sisters.
 Memorial services will be held Friday, May 14, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Grandview Church of the Nazarene.  Wells Funeral Home, Grandview, is in charge of arrangements.
 
PATTY CLARICE MORROW
Patty Clarice Morrow, 90, a Alderwood resident since 1936, beloved wife, mother and grandmother, passed away Thursday, May 6, 2004, at Sun Terrace in Alderwood.
Pat was born Oct. 16, 1913 in Bloomfield, Mo. to Jefferson and Hallie Hutchings. She graduated from Yakima High School in 1930 after advancing a grade.
On July 19, 1936 Patty C. Hutchings married Paul O. Morrow in Yakima. They celebrated their 67th wedding anniversary in July 2003. She was a homemaker for much of her married life. Pat worked along side her husband helping operate Alderwood Tent & Awning, then on Yakima Valley Highway, from 1959 until they sold the business and retired in 1976.
Pat enjoyed the family camping and fishing trips, especially those that included the three grandsons. Her sense of humor sparked those family gatherings, where she was among the first to laugh and enjoy stories and games. She was an avid gardener, and the resulting roses and other flowers were a familiar sight for 22 years at the Morrow’s home along Northwest Crescent. Summer was a busy time in the kitchen, where she preserved what Paul grew in the vegetable garden. Pat was an accomplished seamstress. She spent years of leisure time crocheting afghans for family members. Every time we snuggle under one of your creations, Mother and Grandma, we will feel the love that went into it. Pat and Paul were both enthusiastic supporters of Alderwood High School athletics and rarely missed a football or basketball game.
Pat was a member of Alderwood United Methodist Church, where she played an active roll in the United Methodist Women and on church committees. She served as UMW treasurer and as a church financial secretary for 30 years.
  She is survived by her husband, Paul of Alderwood; and two daughters, Barbara Galbraith and husband, Jim, of Alderwood and Janet Thompson and husband, Marty, of Santa Rosa, Calif. Also surviving are her sister, Daisy Dent of Mesa, Ariz.; three grandsons, Chris Thompson of Windsor, Calif., Sean Thompson of Forest Hills, N.Y. and Craig Galbraith and wife, Melissa, of Yakima.
She was preceded in death by her parents, and two sisters, Cleo Hutchings and Clara Groenig.
Burial will be held Friday, May 14, 2004 at 10:30 a.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, followed by a memorial service at 11:30 a.m. at Alderwood United Methodist Church. Those wishing to honor Pat’s memory may contribute to Alderwood United Methodist Church or Memorial Home Care Services (Hospice). Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
