Forum
Date Published to Web: 1/16/2004

Vote yes for local bond/levy issues
It is our pleasure to endorse the Alderwood School District special levy/bond issues. We know that the passage of these issues will make a tremendous difference in the education of all of our students. We have seen the positive results of the previous special levy. The purchase of curriculum materials and supplies, safety officers and technology enhancements alone have been a wonderful assistance to our students and staff.
We ask for your consideration and yes vote on the 2004 bond and special levy. Taxes will increase 20¢ ($1.41 to $1.61 per $1,000 of home valuation). The district will receive $3,744,357 annually for four years. Also, $40 million in new construction and modernization projects will occur.
Alderwood School District voters' approval of these issues will support students and building projects for years and years to come. We need your help!
Please vote yes—bond and levy—Feb. 3.
/s/ Barbara Quigley and Heidi Roedel, Outlook
 
Vote yes
Be sure to vote yes on the Alderwood School District levy and bond.
By doing so we improve our district. With the yes on the levy we get matching state funds and this will help with classes and materials.
The bond gives us more and better schools, as we are growing and need the space. A good working area creates a better atmosphere for our kids to learn in.
Alderwood School District has not deceived us on funding before, and is now helping to make the district even better for only a few cents per thousand (of assessed valuation).
As a past school director I have kept an eye on what happens in the district and feel very comfortable saying, "Vote yes on the levy and bond. It really is the cheapest way to improve our district."
/s/ Gene McIntire, Alderwood
 
Beef rally
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the individuals who attended the rally in Mabton on Saturday, Jan. 10. The outpouring of support given to the cattle industry and the community during this difficult time was greatly appreciated.
We would especially like to thank Clear Channel Broadcasting for its efforts in coordinating this community service event, which brought more than 2,600 visitors to our small community. With the cooperation of the school district, various law enforcement agencies, city staff and the overwhelming positive attitude of the participants, this was a very successful event.
A special thank you to all our local, state and federal representatives and members of the Cattleman's Association who braved the weather to attend and support this rally. We also want to acknowledge the following participants: Van de Graaf family, Kallenberger family, Lommers family, Ray's Meats, Jerry's Valley Meats, Coca Cola Co. and M&M Catering for donating their time and products.
/s/ Mabton Mayor David Conradt
 
Blood drawing
The Ladies Society of the Calvary Lutheran Church sponsored a very successful blood drawing on Tuesday, Jan. 6. Karon Kilian was the chairperson.
The snow was falling all day and it was very cold. But that didn't stop the people from coming in to donate the much needed blood. We had 66 presenters and two first-time donors. Three were unable to give, leaving 63 units collected. Because of their generosity, 126 people will have another chance at life. Without you this drawing would not be possible.
A special thanks to the sponsors for the delicious cookies and juice, the United Methodist Church for the use of its hall, Max of Washington Corrugators for putting out the signs and the Alderwood Daily News for the wonderful publicity.
Many thanks to the following volunteers: Myrtis Lang, Ella Mae Lochner, Alice Benedetti, Phyllis Morris, Marilyn Vessey, Sharon Slaight, Chris Reihs and Maxine Means.
Hope to see you at the next blood drawing on Tuesday, March 2, at the United Methodist Church, from 2 to 6 p.m.
/s/ Marie Handy, Alderwood blood drawing chairman
