Entertainment Briefs
Date Published to Web: 10/22/2004

‘Liberty Quartet’in concert Nov. 7
WEST VALLEY - The "Liberty Quartet" will appear in concert Sunday, Nov. 7, at the West Valley Church of the Nazarene.
Described as an outstanding Southern Gospel group, the quartet will perform at 6 p.m. in the church sanctuary, located at 72nd and Nob Hill Boulevard.
A love offering will be collected during the concert, which is open to the public.
 
Frisbee tourneyon tap Oct. 30-31
PASCO - Frisbee enthusiasts are being urged to watch the action at the fifth annual "Hanford Howl Ultimate Frisbee Tournament."
The two-day event will be held at the Tri-Cities Youth Soccer Association fields, near the TRAC facility in Pasco. It is being sponsored by the Tri-Cities Visitor and Convention Bureau, Desert Lorax and the Tri-Cities Ultimate Frisbee Club.
Competition will take place between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Saturday, Oct. 30, and from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday, Oct. 31. Generally, four games take place simultaneously. The final championship tournament will be staged Sunday afternoon.
For extra flavor, competing teams will don Halloween costumes in keeping with the theme, "Hanford Howl."
The two-day tournament will involve teams from across the Pacific Northwest. At least 300 people are expected to compete.
"Events such as these are not only fun, they benefit the community since proceeds from this tournament are donated to charity," said Kris Watkins, president of the Tri-Cities Visitor and Convention Bureau.
Sally McFarlane, the tournament's publicity coordinator, is encouraging the public to attend, at no charge, and learn more about the sport of Ultimate Frisbee.
"It's a fast paced team sport that combines the elements of soccer, football and basketball. Players try to pass the Frisbee down the field into an end zone to score goals," said McFarlane.
"Generally, there are seven players on each coed team, four men and three women," she continued. "A very unique aspect of the Ultimate Frisbee sport is the fact that the game is played without referees or officials. It requires the players to call their own fouls and relies on what is called the 'spirit of the game," a concept that promotes competitive play but not at the expense of sportsmanship."
 