'Hounds open CWAC play with 35-14 victory
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 9/13/2004

BENTON CITY - In its season opener two Fridays ago, the Grandview High School football team committed more mistakes than it could overcome in a 32-25 loss to class 3A Alderwood. This past Friday night, the class 2A Greyhounds played nearly error-free. The end result was a 35-14 victory over the hapless Ki-Be Bears.   "We cut our mistakes down from the Alderwood game," said Grandview first year coach Dustin Lamb.   The new Greyhound coach said his players also took advantage of what Ki-Be gave them.   "Ki-Be loaded the box to take away the run from us," Lamb said. "So we went to the air, and it worked."   

All told, a total of six receivers caught at least one pass against the Bears. Quarterback Brandon Artz's favorite targets, though, were Kevin Concienne and James Vela. The duo combined for three touchdowns. Vela gained 153 yards on four receptions, and Concienne picked up 73 yards on his five catches. Ryan Dill also hauled in a TD pass from Artz, a 36-yarder that got Grandview on the scoreboard first.   Artz finished the night connecting on 11-of-17 passes, which netted 274 aerial yards for the 'Hounds. His four touchdown throws easily offset the one interception the Bears had against him.   When Grandview (1-0, 1-1) did go to the ground, it was senior Silas Hansen who took the majority of the hand-offs from Artz. Hansen put the punctuation mark on the game for the 'Hounds with his 3-yard touchdown run late in the third quarter. His short scamper gave Grandview a 35-0 lead. Hansen finished with 50 hard fought yards, coming on 14 totes. Teammate J.R. Camacho added six rushing yards on four carries.   Ki-Be, which was limited to 192 yards of offense, scored two fourth quarter touchdowns after Lamb began subbing freely from his bench.   The win over the Bears came in Grandview's Central Washington Athletic Conference league opener. Grandview, which was dropped from the 3A ranks to class 2A this year, is making its debut in the CWAC this season, after having played in the Mid-Valley League for several years.   But if Grandview fans think the 'Hounds are going to have a cakewalk through the class 2A CWAC this season, they might want to think again. Grandview hosts the perennially tough Connell Eagles this coming Friday night, and Lamb says his club has its work cut out for it.   

"Connell is huge, and very physical," Lamb said. "They nearly knocked off East Valley last Friday, and East Valley is the top rated 2A team in the state."   To beat Connell the Greyhounds are going to have to win the war in the trenches, said Lamb.   "Our line is going to have to play big against Connell," he said. "The game will either be won up front or lost up front."   Lamb is hoping his linemen turn in as strong of an effort against the Eagles this coming Friday as they did against Ki-Be this past weekend. "Our line did a super job of protecting Brandon (Artz) last Friday," he said.   The defensive line of the 'Hounds also excelled against Ki-Be, especially defensive end Cody McMillen. Outside linebacker Chris Mejia turned in a strong effort, as well, for Grandview against the Bears. The Greyhounds' defensive secondary might have played even stronger against Ki-Be, as they limited the Bears to just 49 passing yards. Vela, playing cornerback, had an interception for the 'Hounds, and Matt Emerson from the other cornerback slot also shined with excellent defensive run support.      
