High school graduation exercises begin June 4
Story by: Jamie Smart
Date Published to Web: 5/26/2004

From Bickleton to Grandview, high school seniors are counting the days until graduation.   Alderwood, Mabton and Alderwood Christian high schools will all turn their graduates loose Friday, June 4.   Sunnyisde High will graduate approximately 270 seniors, the largest class to date, according to school officials. Academic class leaders include Stacey Gorski and Josh Barr, who will share valedictorian honors, and Amy Kilian as class salutatorian. The class of 2004 will receive diplomas at 8 p.m. on June 4 on the Clem Senn Football Field, on South 16th Street.   In Mabton, the 45 Mabton Jr./Sr. High School seniors will gather in the Mel Todd Gym on June 4 at 7:30 p.m. in front of families and friends to accept their diplomas. Rosa Mayra Aviles is class valedictorian and Roberto Carlos Brambila is salutatorian.   Alderwood Christian High School seniors will gather for graduation ceremonies at the Grandview Church of the Nazarene, 500 N. Elm St., for their graduation ceremonies on June 4. Beginning at 7:30 p.m., the 20 SCHS graduates will be awarded their diplomas. Vanessa DeJong is class valedictorian and Alyssa Groenewold is salutatorian.   Saturday, June 5, the nine Bickleton High School graduates will meet at 5 p.m. in the high school gym for their graduation ceremonies. Dana Hodge is class valedictorian and Ashley Whitmore is salutatorian. The Bickleton baccalaureate ceremonies will be held Wednesday, June 2, at 7 p.m. at the Bickleton Presbyterian Church.   Grandview High School will see 130 seniors step onto the infield at Leenhouts Stadium Saturday, June 5, at 2 p.m. for the 2004 graduation ceremonies. Megan Waddle is class valedictorian and Jeanette Villanueva is salutatorian.   The Alderwood PRIDE High School graduation will be held Monday, June 7, at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood High School auditorium. The class speakers are still being determined, according to Gary Babcock, school administrator. He expects 35 students to be presented with their diplomas.   

