Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 6/24/2004

EARL WRIGHT GASAWAY
Earl Wright Gasaway, 57, of Katy, Texas and a former resident of Prosser passed away Tuesday, June 15, 2004.
He was born June 17, 1946 in Clinton, Ark. Earl grew up in Arkansas and southern California, graduating from high school in El Centro, Calif. On Aug. 18, 1982 he married Vicki O’Meara Hunsinger in Prosser.  
A combat veteran of the U.S. Navy Sea Bees, Earl served his country honorably during the Vietnam War. Upon completion of his service Earl earned an Associate degree from Shoreline College in Seattle, and went on to a distinguished career in law enforcement with the Washington State Patrol. Earl retired from service at the rank of detective in 1985.  Earl’s second career was in the auto industry, where he was a general manager for Tom Denchel Ford and Hood River Ford in Washington and Oregon.
Earl spent his life in service to others. He was a member and officer of the Prosser Rotary Club and the White Salmon Rotary club for many years.  He was especially active in the Rotary International Youth Exchange Program.  Whenever Earl had some free time, he would spend it as a volunteer doing community service or assisting someone in need. Earl loved people and no one was ever a stranger for long with Earl.  Earl believed that the most valuable thing you could give to others was your time, and he spent his life giving freely of his time and energy.  
Earl was an active participant in life.  He enjoyed street rods, golfing, skiing, sailing, and was a talented “handyman”.  Earl was one of the founders of the Prosser Wine and Food Fair.  He traveled the world, but was always glad to come home to family and friends.  His greatest enjoyment came from his grandchildren, Jessa and Jasper.  
Earl had a great joy for life, with a quick wit and a sparkle in his eye.  He enjoyed sharing stories and laughter with good friends.  He will always hold a special place in our hearts and will be missed from our daily lives.  Earl fought a long a gallant battle against a terrible disease.  We know he is with God and ever Earl, he is watching over us all.  
A beloved son, father, brother, uncle, and husband, Earl is survived by his wife, Vicki O’Meara Hunsinger; his mother, Vernell Gasaway of Heber Springs, Ark.; his daughter, Trisha Lyons and husband, Edward; granddaughter, Jessa Lynn of Katy; his son, Will Hunsinger and wife, Brenda; and grandson, Jasper of Hermosa Beach, Calif.; his sisters, Judith Williams and Elizabeth Horn; and brothers, Jackie, Carl, John and Mark.  
He was preceded in death by his father, Eulas Gasaway.
In celebration of Earl’s life, the Rev. Frank Maycock will conduct a memorial service Saturday, June 26, 2004, at 11 a.m. at the First Presbyterian Church in Porsser, with burial at Prosser Cemetery.
If you wish, in lieu of flowers, please consider a donation in Earl’s name to Pancreatic Action Network, 2221 Rosecrans Ave., Suite 131,  El Segundo, Calif.  90245.

