Lady 'Hounds beat Ellensburg, fall to Selah
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 9/20/2004

SELAH - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds played seven games Saturday, sweeping past the Ellensburg Bulldogs in a three-game match, then falling to the Selah Vikings in a 3-1 match.   The Ellensburg team was the first team the Lady 'Hounds came up against Saturday, beating them by scores of 25-10, 25-12 and 25-11.   "We paid them back for the jamboree," said Grandview Coach John LaFever, referring to the season opening jamboree where Ellensburg came out to beat Grandview.   LaFever said one big difference between the jamboree match-up and Saturday's competition was the addition of senior Danelle Cowan. Cowan didn't play at the jamboree.   "We were a little different team," LaFever said.   He added that overall his dteam did very well against the Bulldogs.   "We played some very good volleyball, until we fell apart," LaFever said of the two matches.   According to LaFever, his team fell apart about halfway through the match-up with Selah. The Lady 'Hounds managed to win the first game of the afternoon against the Lady Vikings, 25-11, but never found their rhythm after that, falling to the Selah team by scores of 25-21, 25-11 and 25-15.   "Selah was able to take us out of our game and we didn't make good adjustments," LaFever said.   He added that the Lady Vikings were able to do a couple of things that took his team out of its offense.   "We got a little frustrated and played poorly," LaFever said.   Overall, LaFever said he was happy with the girls' performance during the first four or five games of the afternoon.   "We're starting to get there, we're showing an increasing amount of promise," LaFever said.   LaFever noted that both Tonhya Wysong and Cowan played well Saturday. Wysong had 46 digs for the afternoon, while Cowan had 32 kills, 27 digs and 9 blocks. Also helping the Grandview team were Angie Cabrera with 6 kills and 29 digs, Kealey Johnston with 8 kills and 35 digs, Valentina Solis with 18 kills, 6 blocks and 8 aces, Mari Cornejo with 8 kills and 7 blocks, and Chante Bottineau, who had 68 assists.   The Lady 'Hounds (2-0, 3-1) will play again Tuesday night at Ki-Be.

