Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 7/21/2004

Obits.0721
IGNACIO CISNEROS
Ignacio Cisneros, 54, of Alderwood passed away Thursday, July 15, 2004.
He was born May 11, 1950 in Mexico, the son of Ignacio and Maria Elena (Cervantes) Cisneros. He received his education in Mexico. Ignacio moved to California in 1970, and later made his home in the Yakima Valley in 1973. Ignacio worked for various farmers in the Valley and for Independence Foods.
Ignacio enjoyed fishing, playing pool, listening to music and most of all spending time with his grandsons.
He attended St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood.
Ignacio is survived by eight children, Criscelia Valenzuela and husband, Reynaldo, of Grandview, Benjamin Cisneros, Esmerelda Cisneros, Elizet Rodriguez, Monica Cisneros, Selena Cisneros, Angel Cisneros and Jeremiah Cisneros, all of Alderwood; five grandchildren; one brother, Fidel Ortega of Mabton; and two sisters, Esperanza Cisneros and Juana Godinez, both of Alderwood.
He was preceded in death by his parents; one son, Edwardo Cisneros; one sister, Amelia Ortega; and one brother, Abel Ortega.
Recitation of the Holy Rosary will be held Thursday, July 22, 2004, at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.  
 
BARBARA A. MILLER
Barbara (Bobbie) A. Miller, 78, of Spokane passed away Sunday, July 18, 2004, in Spokane.
She was born Dec. 30, 1925 in Gary, Ind. to Harold and Teckla Swanson.
On March 20, 1948 she married Robert A. Miller in Seattle.
She was a member of the Marine Corp League and the Redeemer Lutheran Church.
She is survived by her sons, Craig Miller and wife, Cheryl, of Alderwood, Bruce Miller of Sandpoint, Idaho and David Miller and wife, Connie, of Spokane; two sisters, Helen Tegner of Portland, Ore. and Marilyn Anderson of Manzanita, Ore.; four grandchildren; and numerous nieces and nephews.
She was preceded in death by her husband, Robert, in September, 2000.
A memorial service was held Wednesday, July 21, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Redeemer Lutheran Church, 3606 S. Schafer Rd., Spokane. Memorial contributions may be made to Toys for Tots.
 
RONNIE SHIFFLETT
Ronnie Shifflett, 54, of Alderwood passed away Friday, July 16, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an accident.
He was born Oct. 22, 1949 in Sweetwater, Texas to David and Dessie (Wyatt) Shifflett. He never completed school and instead started working in the fields as a child. He always talked about going back to school to further his life. He was an evangelist for many years, traveling with his uncles. In 2002 he renewed his minister’s license after stepping away for many years. He traveled to many places in his earlier years, singing at Lake of the Ozarks with various famous singers and musicians, holding tent revivals and working to help his family.
On Feb. 14, 1980 he and Carolyn Lipe were married in Peoria, Ariz. They met while tying onions in Arizona. They moved to Alderwood in 1983, where they chose to make their home. Ronnie always joked he didn’t like Alderwood, he liked the people but didn’t care for the town. He was always kidding that the Lord had brought him to Alderwood as a punishment. He did enjoy each moment spent with people though.
He was a kind person who talked to everyone near him. He didn’t know a stranger. He enjoyed kids and flagging at Harrison Middle School. Just a few months ago he received a Golden Apple Award from the school district and a bike was donated to him by the school and Wal-Mart. He was grateful and loved showing off his Golden Apple Award and the bike was a joy in his life every day he had the opportunity to ride it. He also loved playing his guitar and ministering to the lost. He was a great father and husband, who can never be replaced.
Ronnie is survived by his wife, Carolyn Shifflett of Alderwood; his first wife, Eva Miller; three children, Tessie Hubbard and husband, Mike, of Missouri, David Shifflett and Carolyn Shifflett, both of Alderwood; one brother, David Shifflett, Jr. and wife, Violet, of Arizona; one sister, Betty Yeatman and husband, Roy, of Clint, Texas; many uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews; and one grandchild, Jonas Hubbard.
He was preceded in death by his parents, David Shifflett, Sr. and Dessie; one sister, Odell Baird; one aunt; and one uncle.
Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, July 23, 2004 and Saturday, July 24, 2004, from 1 until 7 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Monday, July 26, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Cornerstone Assembly, 400 North Ave., Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens.
Memorials are suggested to Cornerstone Assembly for the Shifflett Family, P.O. Box  149, Alderwood, WA 98944.
Roses are red, violets are blue, the sky is grey, dark and we can’t believe it’s true. Everyone is grieving we miss you so much, Dad, we wish you could tell us what to do. We need your advice and guidance. You were taken away too soon. So many emotions are running through all bottled up inside. We need you and know we didn’t say it enough, but we love you. We wish this was just a bad dream and you would come and comfort us soon, but this nightmare is reality even though we don’t want to believe it's true. So if you’re looking down touch our shoulders, tell us you’re OK. We miss you so much Dad. God be with us and you. What should we do? We feel like we let you down. Put your arms around us and tell us it isn’t true. We feel your presence and know you’re here. Tell God we still love Him even though he took you. We miss you so much Dad, we’ll always love you.  David and CJ
 
ROBERTA F. WARREN
Roberta F. Warren, 82, of Grandview passed away Monday, July 19, 2004, at the Life Care Center in Richland.
  Roberta was born July 30, 1921 in Yakima, the daughter of Bessie (McDaniels) and Robert Barker.  Roberta received her education in Grandview.  In 1950 she married Ben F. Warren in Seattle. Following their marriage they made their home in Grandview. Roberta was a member of the Salvation Army and Rebekah Lodge in Grandview.
She is survived by two sons, Larry Warren and wife, Rosemarie, of West Richland and Robert Warren and wife, MaryEllen, of Moses Lake; three grandchildren, Elizabeth, Ben and Bobby Warren, all of Moses Lake; one sister, Amanda Bartell of Auburn; two brothers, Al Barker and Robert Barker, both of Grandview; numerous nieces and nephews; and numerous extended family.
She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Ben F. Warren; one daughter, Wanda; and one sister, Hazel.
Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, July 22, 2004, from 9 a.m. until time of the funeral service at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Burial will be at Grandview Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Grandview.
