Forum
Date Published to Web: 9/1/2004

GHS Follies
On behalf of all the students, teachers and volunteers involved in the first annual Grandview High School Follies, I would like to thank the Alderwood Daily News for the excellent coverage of our debut production that took place this past May. An incredible amount of time and work was put into our show and we appreciate the publicity of the local newspaper.
We also owe endless gratitude to all of our supporters and contributors, which are comprised of the following: Gayla Boast, Tim Bennett, Mike Closner, Kevin Bones, Laurene Contreras, Jack Dalton, GEAR-UP, Tim Grow, Martin Guillen, Arcella Hall, Shelby Hall, Mary Herrera, Tracy King, John LaFever, Andrea Martinez, Joe and Lupe Martinez, Eileen Mathews, Rick and Vicki McLean, Mid-Valley Chrysler, Genoveva Morales-Ledesma, Movie Gallery, Kenny and Joci Nelson, Pizza Hut, Elizabeth Ray, Christy Rodriguez, Safeway, Travel Connection, University of Washington, WSU-Tri Cities Latino Outreach, and the judges—Mike Carpenter, Dottie and Sil Cervantes, Gretchen Chronis, Dirk Desserault, and Karen and Joe Veloz.
Thank you, parents and community members, for attending our Follies production. Our tremendously talented group of students who participated in the production should be very proud. Because of extraordinary support we received, we surpassed our monetary goal by 50 percent.
/s/ Danika Martinez, GHS class of 2007 president
 
Public encouraged to get involved with 4th of July celebration here
I am an active citizen who enjoys participating in local activities, as well as getting others involved in doing the same. I recently helped coordinate a fund-raiser for the Fourth of July celebration. We had donation jars at businesses all around town, asking for money to help pay for the public fireworks display at the Alderwood High School football field. This display is free to the public.
This was a success, however, we need to start planning for next year. Our fireworks display could be a lot bigger if we all pitched in and helped fund this project. We need to turn in funds for this project by June 1, 2005.
Our proposal is you, the public and the citizens of Alderwood, help fund this project by donating all your aluminum cans. If everyone donated their cans we could raise enough money to have a spectacular one-hour show for the 2005 Fourth of July display. We know that if we all work together we can accomplish anything.
I spoke with Dave's Recycling Center in Grandview and I have opened an account for this project. If you recycle your items at this location and would like to donate all or part of your profits for this project, just let them know at the counter and they will take your donation and deposit it into the "Citizens of Alderwood Fund."
We will furnish the containers for the aluminum cans, as well as monitor them and pick them up as often as needed. Currently, we have secured one site at the law and justice center, on First Street, near the recycling dumpsters. We are presently trying to secure more sites where citizens can drop off their aluminum can donations around town.
We need your help. Won't you please help by providing a container site? Won't you please help by donating your aluminum cans and drop them off at the designated site near the law and justice center? Won't you please help by donating some or all of your recycling profits at Dave's Recycling Center? Won't you please help by hosting a donation jar at your business to raise funds for next year's fireworks display?
If you are able to help with this worthwhile community project we would greatly appreciate your support. Please contact me at 837-6340.
/s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood
 
Casino night
It's a shame more people didn't show up for the casino night on Friday, Aug. 13, at the Alderwood Senior Center. The ones who came certainly enjoyed the evening.
When we entered the center we were given $200 in play money. The kitchen counter was filled with all sorts of goodies, including delicious sandwiches. After eating we chose games we wished to play to earn more money so at the end of the evening we'd have enough play money to bid on items offered in the auction.
All in all, it was a fun evening for all us seniors.
The emcee, Don Stiles, makes us all laugh and he did a great job as usual. All of us send a great big thank you to those who helped make casino night possible for all of us. Also, thanks to the young man who carried out my winnings to the car in the dark.
We had a wonderful evening.
/s/ Bernice Seward, Alderwood
 
Fairs threatened
The Yakima Valley Fair & Rodeo in Grandview recently concluded another delightful year, with dedicated kids entering food, craft, clothing and livestock exhibits—all while figuring out ways to stay cool.
And it would be a shame to lose this fair, disappointing a lot of kids and parents who count on participating every year. Grandview's fair is just one of three community fairs held annually in the Yakima Valley, besides Toppenish's and West Valley's.
How are these fairs threatened? Because the county budget of $390,000 for Yakima County WSU Extension's match is in jeopardy. While about 80 percent of the county's nearly $55 million budget for law and justice is essential in keeping our communities safe, it is also essential to keep the positive impacts that Extension brings to the residents of Yakima County.
4-H is based in the Extension Service. If Extension was eliminated, the 4-H program in Yakima County would be eliminated. Hundreds of youth in 4-H and FFA participate in county fairs, yet 4-Hers participate about 10 to 1 over those in FFA—which means the fairs would probably collapse due to lack of participation. This is exactly what happened in Multnomah County in Oregon.
4-H is just a tip of the iceberg of the benefits of Extension. Extension agents in horticulture and livestock advance those industries with information in cutting edge technology and research. Agriculture is a foundation of Yakima County. The Extension Service is exemplary in using volunteers to improve lifestyles of residents by teaching food safety, improved nutrition, sewing, gardening and living on a budget, to name a few.
$390,000 is a small portion, creating a huge positive impact, of the $55 million county budget. Yakima County receives approximately two times the match in resources for its investment in WSU Extension. If the money is not approved for Extension, it will be sorely missed, and cause a "trickle down" effect with a loss of valuable industry information, household education and community fairs in Toppenish, West Valley and Grandview.
/s/ Karin Argo, Zillah
 
Vote for righteousness
Yes Bob (Story), you are correct, when you said, "who do we vote for?"
Regarding the U.S. Senate, I would like to share the following: the Bible says, "righteousness exalts a nation." Here is our chance to vote for righteousness (www.bradklippert.com). Be sure to click on the link "Sound the Alarm."
This man's brochure and web site make no bones about his Godly stance. It states, "a God-fearing, Bible-believing, Ten Commandments-honoring evangelical Christian."
Oh, that God fearing people would vote their conscience.
/s/ Barbara Mortensen, Alderwood
 
Softball tourney
What a great weekend we had in Alderwood, with a 20-team softball tournament at SunnyView Park.
For those who think SunnyView's ball fields don't get used, you are very wrong. With 15 of the 20 teams being from out of town, just imagine what kind of revenue Alderwood generated. Players and their families stayed overnight and ate at various restaurants, or shopped at local stores.
Fifteen teams times 14 players per team, plus families, makes for a lot of money spent in town.
I, myself, spent the $2,200 for tournament expenses here locally.
I want to thank the city park staff for its excellent work all week to prepare the fields for use. We had quite a few compliments. Also, I want to thank our sponsors: Aztlan Sportswear, El Valle Restaurant and The Valley's Market. Thanks also to Linda, Jaime, Bobby Jr., Jessica, Andre and Bobby III Sarmiento, and Rene and Yolanda Montelongo, for all their hard work. Without everyone's help this success wouldn't have taken place.
/s/ Bob Sarmiento Sr.
 
Guard rail efforts
I want to especially thank one individual who has taken on several projects and volunteered all her time and effort. Carol Stone has done an excellent job in organizing the plantings along the guard rail. Carol organized all of the volunteers to plant the hundreds of bulbs and starts in this area in Alderwood. She donated most of the items and received donations for the rest.
After this project was completed Carol then came to me with a new idea to paint the guard rail and have multi-color handprints decorate the guard rail. Again, she organized this effort and did a great job. Thanks to Carol this area is much brighter and more colorful for all of us to enjoy.
It is good to know that we can count on individuals to volunteer their time and energy to make our community a better place to live.
/s/ Don Stiles, Director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department
 