Alderwood School Board Briefs
Date Published to Web: 10/8/2004

Board approves contract with consultantsfor MSDR
Last week, Alderwood School Board members approved a contract for personal services with Educational Management Consultants Inc. of Mercer Island.
The contract calls for the company to help facilitate the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment (MSDR) office with activities that are related to preparing the request for proposal regarding making the Alderwood branch of MSDR the national data bank.
According to the contract, the company will earn $90 an hour for their services. The contract is effective Sept. 1, 2004 through Aug. 31, 2005.
 
Contract approved for gifted and talented program
The Alderwood School Board has approved a contract for personal services with Mac Chambers of Alderwood.
Chambers will be coordinating the Javits Gifted and Talented Program enrichment clusters. The contract is effective Oct. 1, 2004 through Sept. 30, 2005. The contract totals $30,000.
 
Contract approved for language translations
Alderwood School Board members have approved a contract for personal services with Centerpoint Language Services of Yakima.
The contract is effective Sept. 1, 2004 through Aug. 31, 2005 and notes that a consultant with the firm will provide verbal translations and written translations to the Migrant Education Program. According to the contract, the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment office agrees to pay the consultant $275 a day for verbal translation and $30 an hour for written translation.
 
Board approves contract for Corrective Reading consultant
Last week, Alderwood School Board members approved a contract for personal services with Tara Ebey of Spokane.
The contract calls for Ebey to assist Chief Kamiakin, Alderwood High School and PRIDE High School with the implementation of the Corrective Reading program. The contract will also provide for training and mentoring for all fourth grade teachers in the district who are working with students who are not seeing success with the Open Court reading system. According to the contract, Ebey will also continue to guide Harrison Middle School in its second year of the Corrective Reading program.
The contract, effective Aug. 1, 2004 though June 30, 2005, is for $600 a day for up to 29 days, plus expenses.
 
Board approves contract for review of PASS math course
The Alderwood School Board has approved a contract with Peter Weron of Grandview for work to review and revise the PASS math courses.
The contract, effective Oct. 1, 2004 through Aug. 31, 2005, is through the office of Secondary Education for Migrant Youth (SEMY). According to the contract, SEMY will pay Weron $25 an hour, not to exceed $3,000, to review revisions to the curriculum.
 
Contract for occupational therapy approved
The Alderwood School Board has approved a contract for professional services with occupational therapist Susan S. Scott of Selah.
The contract, effective Aug. 26, 2004 through June 10, 2005, calls for Scott to provide occupational therapy for students with disabilities in the district.
According to the contract, Scott will be paid $55 an hour, for a maximum of 392 hours.
 
Board approves agreement with Bickleton schools
Alderwood School Board members have approved a memorandum of understanding with the Bickleton School District to provide the services of a certified school psychologist to the neighboring district.
According to the agreement, the Bickleton district will pay the Alderwood School District $500 a day, based on a seven-hour school day for the services.
 
Board approves sale of surplus property
The Alderwood School Board has approved the sale of more than six pieces of surplus property for a total of $1,234.
The property sold includes a paint sprayer, a Palm III holder, a Cummins engine, an Orbit drill press, a large Rockwell band saw, a Rockwell jointer and scrap metal.
 
Two travel requests approved by board
Last week, the Alderwood School Board approved two travel requests, one that will send several DECA students to the fall leadership conference in Spokane and another that will send John Hughes and one student to Boise, Idaho.
The DECA students, along with Erin Ferguson, will attend the conference Oct. 21 through Oct. 23.
Hughes and the one student will be attending the Effective Communities Regional Forum from Oct. 3 through Oct. 6.
 
