Selah blanks the Grizzlies
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 11/1/2004

SELAH - It was a long night for the faithful of the Alderwood High School football team this past Friday night in Selah.   

The Grizzlies were thumped by their Mid-Valley League rivals 35-0, as a fired up Selah team took care of business, said Grizzly Coach Mark Marro.   "They wanted it more," said Marro of the Vikings.   Friday night's loss marks the second week in a row that the Grizzlies have been shut out. Alderwood lost 20-0 at Ellensburg the previous week.   Alderwood (2-4, 4-5) will be looking to end the 2004 season on a bright note this Thursday night, as the Grizzlies host 2A Naches.   Friday night's game against the Vikings wasn't played as badly as the final score might indicate. Going into the second half, the Vikings had a mere a 14-0 lead following a late second quarter touchdown.   In the second half, the Vikings used a strong ground game to rack up three touchdowns to account for the final score. The last touchdown by the Vikings came on a 72-yard burst by Rowan Ringer late in the game.   Marro offered few excuses for his team's performance on Friday night.   "We just didn't get off the ball," said Marro. "They (Selah) controlled the line of scrimmage."   The Grizzlies did manage to threaten inside Selah's 20-yard line a few times, said Marro, but the drives ended up self destructing.   Marro said in the second half Selah simply was overpowering.   

"They physically got after it," said Marro. "We came out flat. They (Selah) just took it to us."   Marro said Alderwood had several players who put forth a strong individual effort, but the team chemistry wasn't flowing enough to keep up with how Selah was playing.   Alderwood's Greg Gilleland nearly had a 100-yard rushing night, gaining 95 yards on 21 carries. Teammate Joe Schwartz had 25 yards on eight totes.   The Vikings did most of their damage on the ground, as Ringer ran for 132 yards on just 10 carries.   Marro is looking to end the season strong this Thursday night at home against Naches. The Grizzlies will have an opportunity to finish .500 for the season with a win over the Rangers.   "They are a good team," said Marro. "We are going to have to get after it."
