Obituaries for Friday May 7, 2004
 Date Published to Web: 5/10/2004

AVIS B
AVIS B. CRANFORD
Avis B. Cranford, 77, of Alderwood died Tuesday, May 4, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital.
She was born Dec. 7, 1926 in Rockham, S.D. to John and Melissa May (Root) Irwin. She received her early education in South Dakota. In 1941 she with her family moved to Alderwood. She attended Alderwood High School and graduated with the class of 1945. In 1947 she married Jack Cranford in Alderwood, where they together made their home.
She is survived by her mother, May Irwin; one son, Keith Cranford and wife, Sherry, of Zillah; one daughter, Pat McMeans and husband, Bill, of Alderwood; two grandsons; one granddaughter;
She was preceded in death by her father, Jay Irwin; and her husband, Jack Cranford.
A memorial service will be held Monday, May 10, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Mrs. Cranford’s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Society. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements.
 
JAMES DOUGLAS ETHRIDGE
James Douglas Ethridge, 57, died Wednesday, May 5, 2004, at his home in Alderale.
He was born Dec. 26, 1946 to Vernon and Violet (Hatrick) Ethridge in Roslyn. He received his education in the Alderdale, Alderwood and Prosser schools. In 1965 he enlisted in the U.S. Army serving during the Vietnam War until 1967.
On May 12, 1984 he married Juanita Thompson in Grandview. Together they made their home on the family farm. He worked for two and half years at CWI Security in Yakima.
 He is survived by his wife, Juanita Ethridge of Mabton; one son, Robert Peterson; five daughters, Sara Borrough and husband, Perry, of Boardman, Ore., Mary Wilkenson of Mabton, Rose and husband, Mike, of Grandview, Violet Armstrong and husband, Robert, of Bellingham and Pam Kly and husband, Robert, of New York; 13 grandchildren; six brothers; and one sister.
He was preceded in death by his adopted parents, Robert and Pearl Peterson; one sister; and two brothers.
Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, May 11, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, May 12, 2004 at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.
 
ROBERT FRANCIS BAUERLE
Robert Francis “Bob” Bauerle, 79, a Alderwood resident and businessman, passed away Tuesday, May 4, 2004, in Fountain Hill, Ariz.
Bob was born in Corder, Mo., the son of Dessie (Westerfield) and Francis Bauerle.  He graduated from the eighth grade in Lee Summit, Mo. and later completed his GED and a two-year college equivalency.  Bob joined the Marine Corps during World War II at the age of 16 and was involved in combat operations in the South Pacific Theater including the invasion of Pelieu.
On June 1, 1945, he married Darlene H. Knowlton in Yakima, where he was a service manager at Ross Lynch Motors.  In 1953 Bob and Darlene moved to Alderwood, where they founded Bob’s Auto Clinic and Red Barn Antiques of Alderwood. In 1974 the Bauerles began their realestate career and in 1975 received their realestate brokers’ license and founded Bob Bauerle and Associates Realtors of Alderwood. Bob completed his career as a realtor at Valley Investment Company. His wife, Darlene died March 7, 1994.  Bob later met and married Leone on June 21, 1997. They made their home in Alderwood and Chandler, Ariz. for the last seven years.
He was co-founder of Alderwood Daybreak Rotary, president of Alderwood Chamber and National Garage Owners Association of America, board member of Alderwood Rotary and a Paul Harris Fellow. Board member of Home Security Bank, Alderwood Inc, Yakima Valley Economic Development; Yakima Valley Visitors and Convention Bureau, director of the Alderwood Port Authority; He was a State President Farm Land Management; member of the Alderwood Eagle; Lower Valley Elks Lodge #2112; Kiwanis and “acclaimed” Alderwood Fantasy Football Association.
He is survived by his wife, Leone Bauerle; son, Robert L. Bauerle; daughter, Linda Bauerle Hughes; and grandchildren, Corley Bauer Hughes, Courtney Lauren Hughes, Robert Andrew Bauerle, and Timothy John Bauerle.
He was preceded in death by his wife of 47 years, Darlene Bauerle; half-brothers, Buck Willard and John Willard.
Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, May 10, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 11, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.  Burial will be in Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor Bob’s memory may contribute to the Veteran of Foreign Wars Memorial Fund in Alderwood.
 