Lady 'Hounds race past Othello
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 10/1/2004

OTHELLO - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds out ran the Huskies Thursday night, racing past the Othello team to claim victory in a three-game match.   The Grandview team defeated Othello by scores of 25-15, 25-8 and 25-12.   "It was a pretty good team effort," said Grandview Coach John LaFever. "We did a good job of doing the things we had to do."   

LaFever added that the game came at a tough time for the Lady 'Hounds, noting that it's Homecoming week and many students are staying up late.   He added that the long bus ride to Othello was also tough on the team.   "Riding to Othello, then having to play - that's kind of tough," he said.   Overall, LaFever said he was happy with his team's performance against Othello.   "They did a good job and played really well," LaFever said.   Helping add a bit of spunk to Grandview's game was senior Mari Cornejo. LaFever explained that Cornejo has been working on a new serving style, which she tried out against Othello.   "She had a long string of serves that really dominated the game," LaFever said.   He said that the serve Cornejo is using is something she picked up while playing against some larger 4A schools.   Cornejo had a good night overall with 6 aces, 16 service points, 3 kills and 4 assists. Also helping out the Lady 'Hounds were Chante Bottineau with 8 digs and 18 assists, Kealey Johnston with 10 service points, 3 kills and 11 digs, Danelle Cowan with 9 kills and 2 blocks, Angie Cabrera with 2 kills and 7 digs, Valentina Solis with 10 kills and 3 service aces, Jessica Gonzalez with 8 service points, and Tonhya Wysong with 1 kill and 14 digs.   

LaFever said the game with Othello marks one of the last few matches the team will be forced to play on the road.   "They are going to come to our place to play us now," LaFever said.   Before the Lady 'Hounds (5-0, 6-1)return to their home court they will be taking part in the Wenatchee tournament Saturday afternoon.
