School Board Briefs
Date Published to Web: 10/29/2004

The Alderwood High School volleyball team was commended by Alderwood School Board members Thursday night.
Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones read a letter from the father of a Selah volleyball player that noted how impressed he was with the class shown by both Alderwood's volleyball team and the student body as a whole. The father, Ben Graf, noted that Selah had played Alderwood during the Grizzly's senior night and he appreciated that not only were Alderwood's seniors honored, but Selah's as well.
 
547 participated in Best SELF program
Thursday night, Alderwood School Board members learned that 547 students participated in this past summer's Best SELF program.
Over the course of the summer those students received 112 hours of study time, as well as a chance to take field trips, play tennis and paint murals for the Central Washington State Fair.
 
Board commends Jensen for her work at Outlook
Outlook Elementary School Nurse Colleen Jensen was commended by Outlook Principal Cathy Mears, as well as the Alderwood School Board for the way she recently reacted to a situation involving a sick child at the elementary school.
Mears noted that Jensen quickly realized the child was very sick and needed immediate medical attention. The child was transferred to the local emergency room and was then taken for further care in the Tri-Cities.
Mears said Jensen didn't stop at sending the child to the hospital. She also got to work hunting down the boy's parents, as well as an older brother to accompany him to the emergency room.
"Every school nurse would have done the same thing," Jensen said.
 
Parks and rec thanks VICA Club for Harvest Dance success
Thursday night, the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department offered their thanks to the Alderwood High School VICA Club for the success of the recent Harvest Dance.
During the Harvest Dance VICA students served as hosts and hostesses and danced with the seniors who were in attendance.
 
Board approves Perkins budget
 Thursday night, Alderwood School Board members approved the budget for the use of Perkins funds.
Alderwood High School teacher Holly Ohler said the school district has received $97,276 in Perkins funds. She said the money will be used for a variety of things, including updating the software in the school's business labs, training counselors in career guidance and paying for field trips for the different vocational classes.
 
Board approves contract for gifted and talented program
The Alderwood School Board approved a contract between the school district and the University of Washington Center for the Study and Teaching of At-Risk Students (C-STARS).
The contract will help provide support services and technical assistance for the district's Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program.
The amount of the contract is $129,882, and the period of the contract is from Oct. 1, 2004 through Sept. 30, 2005.
 