Mabton grid team tethers Billy Goats
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 10/18/2004

PATEROS - The Pateros Billy Goats were undefeated in Central Washington 'B' League play heading into last Friday's football game against visiting Mabton. They no longer are.   Mabton bullied the Billy Goats enroute to scoring a 35-17 conference victory.   "It was big," said Mabton Coach D.J. Search. "We out-physicaled them.   "The coaches and kids did a good of watching film last week. We were all confident we were going to be more physical than them," Search said.   Search credits his offensive and defensive lines for taking control of the game. "Both lines played outstanding," he said.   Defensively, Mabton limited Pateros to just 86 rushing yards. The Billy Goats did gain about 150 yards through the air, although the Pateros QB, Zahn, was picked once. The interception was claimed by Mabton free safety Ryan Harris.   Search explained that Pateros employed a spread offense against his club, often times using pro sets in the backfield.   "We just played assignment defense against them," he said. "We stayed in our 5-3 defense, except on 3rd and long plays when we jumped into something else.   "We were very physical against them," Search added. "Our whole defense did their job. They came to play. Tackling was very good."   Offensively, the Vikings' line was just as physical, which resulted in some large holes being opened for Mabton's running backs. The Vikes' leading ground gainers were Pablo Sanchez, Alex Zavala and Ray Elizondo. Sanchez tallied 108 yards on the ground on 13 carries. Zavala scooted for 93 yards on 10 totes, and Elizondo ran the ball 11 times for 61 yards.   Mabton QB Ryan Harris didn't have to air it out much Friday night. He only attempted nine passes, completing three of them for 80 yards. Zavala had two of the receptions, accouting for 72 of the 80 passing yards.   The Vikes opened a 14-0 lead on Pateros with two first quarter scores. Sanchez had the first TD, that coming on a 61-yard breakaway run. Harris had a 2-yard dive for the second touchdown.   Pateros countered with a 39-yard TD pass late in the opening quarter to cut Mabton's lead to 14-6.   The Vikes responded in the second quarter, though, punching in two more touchdowns to build their lead to 28-6. Jovanni Ochoa, on his only carry of the game because Sanchez's helmet was broken, scored the first of the two TD's on a 3-yard plunge. The other touchdown came on Sanchez's second score of the night, a 9-yard scamper.   Pateros closed the gap to 28-10 just before the half on a 28-yard field goal.   Mabton added an insurance score in the third quarter when Zavala broke loose and raced 16 yards for a TD. Marco Zepeda followed up the touchdown with his fifth consecutive successful PAT kick of the night.   The Billy Goats got a second TD pass from Zahn in the final quarter to account for the final 35-17 score.   Last Friday's win improved Mabton's South Central 'B' League record to 4-2, 5-2 overall. The Vikings are scheduled to play a non-league game at Highland (3-4) this coming Friday.   Pateros slipped to 4-1 in conference play with the loss, and the Billy Goats still have to play league leading Waterville (5-0).