Mayor pro-tem suggests regaining control of library
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 11/5/2004

During Thursday night's joint meeting of the Alderwood School Board and the Alderwood City Council, Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway offered a suggestion concerning the local library.   Greenway wants to enter into discussions with the school district to find a way to take back operation of the Alderwood Public Library from the Yakima Valley Regional Library System.   "We should look at some kind of joint venture between the city and the school district," said Greenway.   The Alderwood City Council opted during budget discussions last year to put before local voters the issue of whether or not to support an additional 50¢ per thousand assessed property value tax to keep the library open under the operation of the Yakima Valley Regional Library. Voters approved that tax earlier this year. 

Council members then relinquished control of the library to the county-wide system.   The regional library system is set to take control of the Alderwood library at the beginning of 2005.   Greenway suggested the partnership with the local school district because he said he feels city residents will be shortchanged by the regional library system. Greenway said the financial figures regional library officials are releasing show that Alderwood residents are paying more into the system than they are getting.   "I think we can take that same 50¢ and do just as good or better," said Greenway.   Councilwoman Jennie Angel, who is involved with the Alderwood Library Board, said regional library officials do have a plan in place to improve the local facility. Angel said she would like to see them given the opportunity to improve the facility before any talks of taking back the library happen.   

Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones didn't rule out such a discussion between the district and the city. Bones did caution there would have to be some changes made in the materials offered at the library if the district managed the facility because of the youths who would use it.   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com   
