Sky high birthday wishes extended to 21-year-old Alderwood woman
Story by: Mel Sacher
Date Published to Web: 8/5/2004

When planning her daughter's 21st birthday celebration, Pamela Kay Yarber of Alderwood knew she needed to do something special.   Her daughter, Andrea Yarber, has spent the majority of the past year recovering from an accident involving a horse that rolled on top of her, breaking her pelvis and hip and crushing her foot, she said.   "She spent 12 days in Harborview and was on crutches for six months," said Mrs. Yarber. "I thought, I've got to do something special for her."   The idea for Andrea's birthday gift this year came to Mrs. Yarber in a dream.   For her youngest's 21st birthday, she hired an airplane pilot to pull a sign, reading "Happy 21st Andrea Yarber," through the skies over their Alderwood home.   The Yarber family was able to keep the birthday wishes from the sky a secret from Andrea until it was time to reveal the present Wednesday afternoon.   The Washington State University student was in her parents' home with her sister when the sister suggested they go outside because she was warm, said the birthday girl.   "I thought, OK," she said. Going outside she saw the sign circling above the house.   "I was shocked," said the 21-year-old. "I usually find out secrets kept from me before they happen, but this one they kept pretty well."   Mrs. Yarber was concerned that the pilot would not be able to make the flight because a storm was predicted to hit the Lower Valley Wednesday afternoon.   "I've been worrying and stewing all day," she said Wednesday afternoon.   "This is neat," said the birthday girl, who is the youngest of five children. "It's the nicest thing anyone has ever done for me."   Unfortunately, most of Yarber's friends were working at the time and didn't get to see the birthday sign circling high above.   "I'll call them and let them know," she laughed.   Other plans Andrea has for her birthday include a trip with her sister.   "I hope it's somewhere near water, but she tells me we're going to Oklahoma," Yarber added.   The Yarber's always try to do something special for their five children on their birthdays. One year she and her husband, Richard, sent one of their children on a trip to Hawaii and another to Las Vegas.
