Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 10/27/2004

PAID OBITUARY
BERTHA CURFMAN
Bertha Curfman, 100, of Alderwood passed away Sunday, Oct. 24, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. 
She was born Bertha Bates in Oklahoma’s Indian Territory in 1904 to cotton farmers. Bertha moved with her family to Clayton, New Mexico, where her father filed for a homestead adjacent to the Curfman family, which she later married into. The Santa Fe Trail divided the two homesteads. On Christmas day 1921 she was married to Clarence Curfman. They moved to Washington in the early 1930s during the Great Depression. Drought drove them from New Mexico. Curfman’s family located in the Outlook area in 1939. They leased 160 acres of Indian land for a dairy and later an egg business. After her husband’s death in 1972, Bertha moved into Alderwood, where she has made her home until the time of her death.
 She is survived by her daughter, Bemma Lue Floyd and husband Clair; her three sons, Clifton Curfman and wife, Avis, Melvin Curfman and wife, Charlotte and Troy Curfman and wife, Kathleen; 16 grandchildren; 41 great-grandchildren and 17 great-great-grandchildren. 
She was preceded in death by her husband, Clarence; and one son, Wilford.
Viewing and visitation will be held, Thursday, Oct. 28, 2004, from 2 to 7 p.m. and Friday, Oct. 29, 2004, from 8 a.m. until the time of the funeral service at 2 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Alderwood Cemetery, Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. Those wishing to honor Bertha’s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Association.
 
THEODORE C. WRIGHT JR.
Theodore (Ted) C. Wright Jr., 57, of Kent passed away Friday, Oct. 22, 2004, at Regional Hospital in Buren after a hard fought battle with various health complications. 
He was born Feb. 21, 1947 in Yakima to Theodore and Pearl Wright, who both had been residents of Alderwood. He attended Pasco High School, where he lettered in track. He retired early after working for Boeing for more than 30 years.
He was an avid bowler and a pool player, earning numerous trophies. 
He was a long-time member of the Moose Lodge and the Eagles Lodge while earning awards on the rituals team. Ted was a big Seattle sports fan and spent many a night enjoying professional wrestling.
He is survived by his mother, Pearl C. Wright; two sons, Clifford Wright and Troy Wright; two grandchildren, Makenzi Wright and Kennedi Wright; two sisters, Jolene Sandwick and Kathleen Johnson; and numerous other relatives and friends.
He was preceded in death by his father, Theodore C. Wright Sr.
You could hear him say with playful conceit as he struts through the gates, “The good lookin’ one is here!”
A graveside service will be held Thursday, Oct. 28, 2004, at noon at Mountain View Cemetery in Auburn. There will be a small banquet following the service at the Church of the Nazarene at 1225 29th St. S.E., Auburn, WA 98002.  
 