Obituaries
Date Published to Web: 3/25/2004

MARIO G
MARIO G. CHAVEZ
Mario G. Chavez, 45, of Mabton passed away Tuesday, March 23, 2004, at Yakima Memorial Hospital.
Mario was born Sept. 2, 1958 in Mexico, the son of Ramiro and Maria (Gutierrez) Chavez. At the age of 17 he moved to Arizona. In 1975 Mario moved to the Yakima Valley, where he worked for various farmers.
He cherished time spent with his children. Mario enjoyed racing, working on cars, watching soccer and gambling. He loved the outdoors, camping, fishing, swimming, bike riding and walking on the beach.
Mario is survived by his wife, Angie Alaniz of Mabton; four children, Mario Chavez Jr, Adam Chavez, Mariaisabel Chavez, all of Alderwood, and Michael Anthony Chavez of Mabton; and three step-children, Adam J. Venecia, Jesselle Venecia and Janelle Venecia, all of Mabton. He is also survived by his mother, Maria Gutierrez Barajas of Mexico; eight brothers, Israel of Alderwood, Roberto and Francisco, both of Santa Maria, Calif., Jesus, Octavio, Samuel, Eliodoro and Enrique, all of Mexico; and five sisters, Maria Del Jesus of Santa Maria, Lidia, Maria Elena, Martha and Maria, all of Mexico.
He was preceded in death by his father, Ramiro Chavez; and four siblings.
Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, March 25, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 5 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held Friday, March 26, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Mabton Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.
 
JEANNETTE HUETSON
Jeannette (Jean) Marian Huetson, 86, of a Alderwood pioneer family passed away Tuesday, March 23, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood.
Jean was born Jan. 4, 1918 in Alderwood, the daughter of Gladys Irena (Woolliscroft) and Harold Leighton Johnson. Jean received her early education at Wendell Phillips School and graduated from Alderwood High School with the class of 1936. Following her graduation Jean attended Ellensburg Beauty School and worked as a beautician for several years. On Feb. 20, 1939 she married Earl Huetson in Prosser. They made their home in Spokane, where their two children were born. A dream of farming brought the Huetson family back to Alderwood, where they purchased a farm on South Emerald Road in 1943. They started a dairy, grew grapes, corn, asparagus and alfalfa.
Jean was a long-time member of the Green Valley Women’s Club. She enjoyed crafts, gardening, cooking, crocheting and rock hounding. After retirement Earl and Jean enjoyed traveling in their R.V. and spending their winters in Arizona.
Her husband, Earl of 61 years passed away in 2000 and Jean had continued to make Alderwood her home until the time of her death.
Jean is survived by one daughter, Anita Maas and husband, Stan, of Grandview; one son, Larry Huetson and wife, Hattie, of Alderwood; five grandchildren, Michael Huetson and wife, Donna, Cheryl Newhouse and husband, Will, Dean Maas and wife, Jill, Kevin Maas and Greg Maas; four great grandchildren, Kiefer Huetson, Paul Nieswonger, Jason Maas and Greg Maas; one brother, Harold L. Johnson of Alderwood; and one sister, Barbara Johnson of Alderwood. She is also survived by several nieces and nephews.
Jean was preceded in death by her parents; and one sister, Virginia N. Verhulp.
Viewing and visitation will be held Sunday, March 28, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. and Monday, March 29, 2004, from 8 to 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be at 11 a.m. at Alderwood Cemetery. Those wishing to honor her memory may contribute to the donor’s choice.
 
HAROLD R. KELLY
Harold R. Kelly, 74, of Prosser passed away Tuesday, March 23, 2004, at his home in Prosser, surrounded by his family following a short illness.
He was born Jan. 17, 1930 in Decatur, Iowa to Everett Ray and Margarita (Adair) Kelly. Harold received his early education in Leon, Iowa, later moving to Washington, making his home on the Satus. In 1947 he enlisted in the U.S. Navy, serving during the Korean War until his honorable discharge in December 1951. On Dec. 30, 1953 he married Edith Gimlin in Mabton. They together made their home in Prosser. Harold worked for Copeland Lumber in Prosser for several years, later working as a timber faller in Glenwood for St. Regis Paper Co. The Kelly family returned to Prosser, where he worked as a line truck operator for Benton Rural Electric until his retirement.
Harold was a life member of the Veterans of Foreign War 3207 of Prosser, and was also a member of the Prosser Eagles.
Harold enjoyed fishing, hunting and reading. He cherished time spent with his children and grandchildren.
He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Edith Marie Kelly of Prosser; two sons, Harold Raymond Kelly Jr. and wife, Denise, of Springfield, Ore. and Jay Kelly and wife, Danica, of Anacortes; three daughters, Debra Cloud and husband, Tom, of Arvada, Colo., Denise Marley and husband, Kelly, of Spokane and Pamela Miller and husband, Sky, of Marysville; 22 grandchildren; and one great-grandson. He is also survived by two brothers, Wayne Kelley of Kellerton, Iowa and Doyle Kelley of Grandview; and three sisters, Dorothy Mae Bunting of Yakima, Leola Milburn of Zillah and Rayetta Browne of Chelan.
He was preceded in death by his parents; and one brother, Robert Kelley.
Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, March 26, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m., and Saturday, March 27, 2004, from 9 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor Harold’s memory may contribute to the International Myeloma Foundation, c/o 12650 Riverside Dr., Suite 206, North Hollywood, CA 91607.
